releases: add TiDB 5.3.0 release notes (#6839)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.3.0.md

---
title: TiDB 5.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.3 Release Notes

> Release date: November 23, 2021

Author: @TomShawn

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: November 30, 2021
```

TiDB version: 5.3.0

In v5.3, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

+ Introduce temporary tables to simplify your application logic and improve performance
+ Support setting attributes for tables and partitions
+ Support creating users with minimum privilege on TiDB Dashboard to enhance system security
+ Optimize the process of handling timestamps in TiDB to improve the overall performance
+ Enhance the performance of TiDB Data Migration (DM) so that data is migrated from MySQL to TiDB with lower latency
+ Support parallel import in TiDB Lightning to improve the efficiency of full data migration
+ Support saving and restoring the on-site information of a cluster with a single SQL statement, which helps improve the efficiency of troubleshooting execution plan issues
+ Support the continuous profiling experimental feature to improve the observability of database performance
+ Continue optimizing the storage and computing engines to improve the system performance and stability

> ## Compatibility changes

Author: Translated by @Liuxiaozhen12

> **Note:**
>
> When upgrading from an earlier TiDB version to v5.3.0, if you want to know the compatibility change notes of all intermediate versions, you can check the [Release Notes](/releases/release-notes.md) of the corresponding version.

> ### System variables

Author: Translated by @Liuxiaozhen12

|  Variable name    |  Change type    |  Description    |
| :---------- | :----------- | :----------- |

> | [tidb_enable_noop_functions](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_noop_functions-new-in-v40) | Modified |  Temporary tables are now supported by TiDB so `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` and `DROP TEMPORARY TABLE` no longer requires enabling `tidb_enable_noop_functions`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [tidb_enable_noop_functions](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_noop_functions-new-in-v40) | Modified |  Temporary tables are now supported by TiDB so `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` and `DROP TEMPORARY TABLE` no longer require enabling `tidb_enable_noop_functions`. |
```

|[`tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy-new-in-v53) | Newly added  | Determines whether to enable or disable the TSO Follower Proxy feature. The default value is `OFF`, which means the TSO Follower Proxy feature is disabled. At this time, TiDB only gets TSO from PD leader. When this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly sends the requests to all PD nodes when acquiring TSO. The PD follower then forwards the TSO requests to reduce the CPU pressure of PD leader. |
|[`tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v53) | Newly added |  Sets the maximum waiting time for a batch saving operation when TiDB requests TSO from PD. The default value is `0`, which means no additional waiting. |
| [tidb_tmp_table_max_size](/system-variables.md#tidb_tmp_table_max_size-new-in-v53) | Newly added  | Limits the maximum size of a single [temporary table](/temporary-tables.md). If the temporary table exceeds this size, an error will occur. |

> ### Configuration file parameters

Author: Translated by @shichun-0415

Author: Add raftstore.raft-reject-transfer-leader-duration
https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/6836

|  Configuration file    |  Configuration item  | Change type |  Description  |
| :---------- | :----------- | :----------- | :----------- |
| TiDB | [`prepared-plan-cache.capacity`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#capacity)  | Modified | Controls the number of cached statements. The default value is changed from `100` to `1000`.|
| TiKV | [`storage.reserve-space`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#reserve-space) | Modified | Controls space reserved for disk protection when TiKV is started. Starting from v5.3.0, 80% of the reserved space is used as the extra disk space required for operations and maintenance when the disk space is insufficient, and the other 20% is used to store temporary files. |

> | TiKV | memory-usage-limit | Modified  | This configuration item is new in TiDB v5.3.0 and its value is calculated based on storage.block-cache.capacity. |

Author: @qiancai @seiya-annie PTAL
```suggestion
| TiKV | memory-usage-limit | Modified  | This configuration item is new in TiDB v5.3.0 and its value is calculated based on storage.block-cache.capacity. |
| TiKV | `raftstore.raft-reject-transfer-leader-duration`  | Deleted | Determines the smallest duration that a Leader is transferred to a newly added node. |
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiKV | `memory-usage-limit` | Modified  | This configuration item is new in TiDB v5.3.0 and its value is calculated based on storage.block-cache.capacity. |
```

| PD | [`patrol-region-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#patrol-region-interval) | Modified | Controls the running frequency at which replicaChecker checks the health state of a Region. The smaller this value is, the faster replicaChecker runs. Normally, you do not need to adjust this parameter. The default value is changed from `100ms` to `10ms`. |
| PD | [`max-snapshot-count`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-snapshot-count) | Modified | Controls the maximum number of snapshots that a single store receives or sends at the same time. PD schedulers depend on this configuration to prevent the resources used for normal traffic from being preempted. The default value is changed from `3` to `64`. |
| PD | [`max-pending-peer-count`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-pending-peer-count) | Modified | Controls the maximum number of pending peers in a single store. PD schedulers depend on this configuration to prevent too many Regions with outdated logs from being generated on some nodes. The default value is changed from `16` to `64`. |

> ### Others

Author: Translated by @en-jin19

- Temporary tables:

>     - Regarding local temporary tables, if you have created local temporary tables on a cluster earlier than TiDB v5.3.0, these tables are actually ordinary tables, and handled as ordinary tables after the cluster is upgraded to TiDB v5.3.0 or later versions. Regarding global temporary tables, if you have created global temporary tables on a cluster in TiDB v5.3.0 or later versions, when the cluster is downgraded to a version earlier than v5.3.0, these tables are handled as ordinary tables and a data error occures.

Author: ```suggestion
    - If you have created local temporary tables on a cluster of a version earlier than TiDB v5.3.0, these tables are actually ordinary tables, and handled as ordinary tables after the cluster is upgraded to TiDB v5.3.0 or a later version. If you have created global temporary tables on a TiDB cluster of v5.3.0 or a later version, when the cluster is downgraded to a version earlier than v5.3.0, these tables are handled as ordinary tables and cause a data error.
```

>     - TiCDC and BR support [global temporary tables](/temporary-tables.md#global-temporary-tables) since v5.3.0. If you use TiCDC and BR in a version earlier than v5.3.0 to replicate global temporary tables to the downstream, a table definition error occurs.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Since v5.3.0, TiCDC and BR support [global temporary tables](/temporary-tables.md#global-temporary-tables). If you use TiCDC and BR of a version earlier than v5.3.0 to replicate global temporary tables to the downstream, a table definition error occurs.
```

>     - The following clusters should be in TiDB v5.3.0 or later versions: the cluster to be exported using TiDB ecosystem tools, the cluster after data is restored using the tools, and the downstream cluster that has replications using the tools. Otherwise, an error is reported when creating a global temporary table.

Author: ```suggestion
    - The following clusters are expected to be v5.3.0 or later; otherwise, data error is reported when you create a global temporary table: 
    
        - the cluster to be imported using TiDB ecosystem tools
        - the cluster restored using TiDB ecosystem tools
        - the downstream cluster in a replication task using TiDB ecosystem tools
```

>     - For the compatibility of temporary tables, refer to [Compatibility with MySQL temporary tables](/temporary-tables.md#compatibility-with-mysql-temporary-tables) and [Compatibility restrictions with other TiDB features](/temporary-tables.md#compatibility-restrictions-with-other-tidb-features)

Author: ```suggestion
    - For the compatibility information of temporary tables, refer to [Compatibility with MySQL temporary tables](/temporary-tables.md#compatibility-with-mysql-temporary-tables) and [Compatibility restrictions with other TiDB features](/temporary-tables.md#compatibility-restrictions-with-other-tidb-features).
```

- Fix an issue that `SHOW CREATE VIEW` does not require the `SHOW VIEW` permission. Now you must have `SHOW VIEW` permission to execute the `SHOW CREATE VIEW` statement.
- The system variable `sql_auto_is_null` is added to the Noop Function. When `tidb_enable_noop_functions = 0/OFF`, an error is reported after modified this variable.
- TiDB no longer allows to execute the `GRANT ALL ON performance_schema.*` syntax. When you execute the statement in TiDB, an error is reported.
- Fix an issue that auto-analyze is triggered outside the specified time period when new indexes are added in earlier versions of v5.3.0. In v5.3.0, after you set the time period with `tidb_auto_analyze_start_time` and `tidb_auto_analyze_end_time`, auto-analyze is only triggered during this time period.
- The default storage directory for plugins is changed from "" to /data/deploy/plugin.
- The DM code is migrated to [the folder "dm" in TiCDC code repository](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/tree/master/dm). The version numbers of DM are changed from v2.0.x to v5.3.0, and you can upgrade from v2.0.x to v5.3.0 without any risk.

## New features

> ### SQL

Author: Translated by @TomShawn

    - Global temporary tables
        - Visible to all sessions in the cluster, and table schemas are persistent.
        - Provides transaction-level data isolation. The temporary data is effective only in the transaction. After the transaction finishes, the data is automatically dropped.
    - Local temporary tables
        - Visible only to the current session, and tables schemas are not persistent.
        - Supports duplicated table names. You do not need to design complicated naming rules for your application.
        - Provides session-level data isolation, which enables you to design a simpler application logic. After the transaction finishes, the temporary tables are dropped.

    [User document](/temporary-tables.md), [#24169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24169)

- **Support the `FOR UPDATE OF TABLES` syntax**

    For a SQL statement that joins multiple tables, TiDB supports acquiring pessimistic locks on the rows correlated to the tables that are included in `OF TABLES`.

    [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-select.md), [#28689](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28689)

> - **Set table attributes**

Author: Translated by @en-jin19

    Support the `ALTER TABLE [PARTITION] ATTRIBUTES` statement that allows you to set attributes to a table or partition. Currently, TiDB only supports setting the `merge_option` attribute. By adding this attribute, you can directly control the Region merge behavior.

    User scenarios: When you perform the `SPLIT TABLE` operation, if no data is inserted after a certain period of time, the empty Region is automatically merged by default. In this case, you can set the table attribute to `merge_option=deny` to avoid the automatic merging of the Region.

    [User document](/table-attributes.md),[#3839](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3839)

> ### Security

Author: Translated by @shichun-0415

- **Support creating a least-privileged user for TiDB Dashboard**

The account system of TiDB Dashboard is consistent with that of TiDB SQL. Users accessing TiDB Dashboard are authenticated and authorized based on TiDB SQL user's privileges. Therefore, TiDB Dashboard requires limited privileges, or merely the read-only privilege. You can configure users to access TiDB Dashboard based on the principle of least privilege, thus avoiding access of high-privileged users.

It is recommended that you create a least-privileged SQL user to access and sign in with TiDB Dashboard. This avoids access of high-privileged users and improves security.

[User document](/dashboard/dashboard-user.md)

> ### Performance

Author: Translated by @en-jin19

    > **Note:**
    >
    > When the number of clients is small and the PD leader CPU is not full, it is NOT recommended to enable PD Follower Proxy.

    - Support setting the maximum waiting time through the system variable [`tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v53). This time is the waiting time for batching TSO requests when PD client requests TSO in batches. The unit of this time is milliseconds. In case that PD has a high TSO requests load, you can reduce the load and improve the throughput by increasing the waiting time to get a larger batch size.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > When the TSO request load is not high, it is NOT recommended to modify this variable.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v53),[#3149](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3149)

> ### Stability

Author: Translated by @en-jin19

### Stability

- **Support Online Unsafe Recovery after some stores are permanently damaged (experimental feature)**

    Support the `unsafe remove-failed-stores` command that performs online data unsafe recovery. Suppose that the majority of data replicas encounter issues like permanent damage (such as disk damage), and these issues cause the data ranges in an application to be unreadable or unwritable. In this case, you can use the Online Unsafe Recovery feature implemented in PD to recover the data, so that the data is readable or writable again.

    It is recommended to perform the feature-related operations with the support of the TiDB team.

[User document](/online-unsafe-recovery.md), [#10483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10483)

### Data migration

- **DM replication performance enhanced**

    Supports the following features to ensure lower-latency data replication from MySQL to TiDB:

    - Compact multiple updates on a single row into one statement
    - Merge batch updates of multiple rows into one statement

- **Add DM OpenAPI to better maintain DM clusters (experimental feature)**

>     DM provides the OpenAPI feature for querying and operating the DM cluster. It is similar to the feature of [dmctl tools](./dmctl-introduction.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    DM provides the OpenAPI feature for querying and operating the DM cluster. It is similar to the feature of [dmctl tools](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/dmctl-introduction).
```

> ### Data migration

Author: Translated by @hfxsd and @Liuxiaozhen12

>     DM provides the OpenAPI feature for querying and operating the DM cluster. It is similar to the feature of [dmctl tools](./dmctl-introduction.md).

Author: @Liuxiaozhen12 Please use the https link because the referenced document **is not in this repo**.

    [User Document](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-distributed-import.md)

- **TiDB Lightning Prechecks**

    TiDB Lightning provides the ability to check the configuration before running a migration task. It is enabled by default. This feature automatically performs some routine checks for disk space and execution configuration. The main purpose is to ensure that the whole subsequent import process goes smoothly.

    [User Document](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-prechecks.md)

- **TiDB Lightning supports importing files of GBK character set**

    You can specify the character set of the source data file. TiDB Lightning will convert the source file from the specified character set to UTF-8 encoding during the import process.

    [User Document](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md)

- **Sync-diff-inspector improvement**

    - Improve the comparison speed from 375 MB/s to 700 MB/s
    - Reduce the memory consumption of TiDB nodes by nearly half during comparison
    - Optimize the user interface and display the progress bar during comparison

    [User Document](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md)

> ### Diagnostic efficiency

Author: Translated by @TomShawn

> - **Save and restore the on-site information of a cluster**
> 
>     When you locate and troubleshoot the issues of a TiDB cluster, you often need to provide information on the system and the execution plan. To help you get the information and troubleshoot cluster issues in a more convenient and efficient way, the `PLAN REPLAY` command is introduced in TiDB v5.3.0. This command enables you to easily save and restore the on-site information of a cluster, improves the efficiency of troubleshooting, and helps you more easily archive the issue for management.
> 
>     The features of `PLAN REPLAYER` are as follows:
> 
>     - Exports the information of a TiDB cluster at an on-site troubleshooting to a ZIP-formatted file for storage.
>     - Imports into a cluster the ZIP-formatted file exported from another TiDB cluster. This file contains the information of the latter TiDB cluster at an on-site troubleshooting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Save and restore the on-site information of a cluster**

    When you locate and troubleshoot the issues of a TiDB cluster, you often need to provide the information on the system and the query plan. To help you get the information and troubleshoot cluster issues in a more convenient and efficient way, the `PLAN REPLAY` command is introduced in TiDB v5.3.0. This command enables you to easily save and restore the on-site information of a cluster, improves the efficiency of troubleshooting, and helps you more easily archive the issues for management.

    The features of `PLAN REPLAYER` are as follows:

    - Exports the information of a TiDB cluster at an on-site troubleshooting to a ZIP-formatted file for storage.
    - Imports into a cluster the ZIP-formatted file exported from another TiDB cluster. This file contains the information of the latter TiDB cluster at an on-site troubleshooting.
```

    [User document](/sql-plan-replayer.md), [#26325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26325)

> ### TiDB data share subscription

Author: Translated by @hfxsd

- **TiCDC Eventually Consistent Replication**

    TiCDC provides the eventually consistent replication capability in disaster scenarios. When a disaster occurs in the primary TiDB cluster and the service cannot be resumed in a short period of time, TiCDC needs to provide the ability to ensure the consistency of data in the secondary cluster. Meanwhile, TiCDC needs to allow the business to quickly switch the traffic to the secondary cluster to avoid the database being unavailable for a long time and affecting the business.

    This feature supports TiCDC to replicate incremental data from a TiDB cluster to the secondary relational database TiDB/Aurora/MySQL/MariaDB. In case the primary cluster crashes, TiCDC can recover the secondary cluster to a certain snapshot in the primary cluster within 30 minutes, given the condition that before disaster the replication status of TiCDC is normal and replication lag is small. It allows data loss of less than 5 minutes, that is, RPO <= 30min, and RTO <= 5min.

    [User Document](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md)

> ### Deployment and O&M

Author: Translated by @shichun-0415

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Deployment and maintenance
```

- **Continuous Profiling (experimental feature)**

    Introduced in TiDB Dashboard, Continuous Profiling allows storing instance performance analysis results automatically in real time without interrupting TiDB clusters. The performance analysis result is displayed using a flame graph, which is observable and shortens troubleshooting time.

    This feature is disabled by default and needs to be enabled on the **Continuous Profile** page of TiDB Dashboard.

    This feature is only available for clusters upgraded or installed using TiUP v1.7.0 or above.

    [User document](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md)

> ## Removed feature

Author: Translated by @hfxsd

Starting from TiCDC v5.3.0, the cyclic replication feature between TiDB clusters (an experimental feature in v5.0.0) has been removed. If you have already used this feature to replicate data before upgrading TiCDC, the related data is not affected after the upgrade.

> ## Improvements

Author: Translated by @qiancai

+ TiDB

    - Show the affected SQL statements in the debug log when the coprocessor encounters a lock, which is helpful in diagnosing problems [#27718](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27718)
    - Support showing the size of the backup and restore data when backing up and restoring data in the SQL logical layer [#27247](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27247)
    - Improve the default collection logic of ANALYZE when `tidb_analyze_version=2`, which improves the collection speed and reduces resource overhead
    - Introduce the `ANALYZE TABLE table_name COLUMNS col_1, col_2, ... , col_n` syntax. The syntax provides a solution for wide tables to collect statistics only on a portion of the columns, which improves the speed of collecting statistics for wide tables.

+ TiKV

    - Enhance disk space protection to improve storage stability

>         To solve the issue that TiKV might panic when getting the disk fully written error, TiKV introduces a two-level threshold defense mechanism for the disk remaining space to prevent excess traffic from exhausting disk space. Additionally, the mechanism provides the ability to reclaim space when the threshold is triggered. When the remaining space threshold is triggered, some write operations will fail and return a disk full error and a list of disk full nodes. In this case, to recover the space and restore the service, you can execute `Drop/Truncate Table` or scale out the nodes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        To solve the issue that TiKV might panic in case of a disk fully-written error, TiKV introduces a two-level threshold defense mechanism to protect the disk remaining space from being exhausted by excess traffic. Additionally, the mechanism provides the ability to reclaim space when the threshold is triggered. When the remaining space threshold is triggered, some write operations will fail and TiKV will return a disk full error as well as a list of disk full nodes. In this case, to recover the space and restore the service, you can execute `Drop/Truncate Table` or scale out the nodes.
```

    - Improve logging threads to avoid them becoming a performance bottleneck [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
    - Add more statistics types of write queries [#10507](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10507)

+ PD

    - Add more types of write queries to QPS dimensions in the hotspot scheduler [#3869](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3869)
    - Support dynamically adjusting the retry limit of the balance region scheduler to improve the performance of the scheduler [#3744](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3744)
    - Update TiDB Dashboard to v2021.10.08.1 [#4070](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4070)
    - Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)
    - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)

+ TiFlash

    - Improve the execution efficiency of the TableScan operator greatly
    - Improve the execution efficiency of the Exchange operator
    - Reduce write amplification and memory usage during GC of the storage engine (experimental feature)

>     - Improve the stability and availability of TiFlash when TiFlash restarts, which reduces the possibility of query failures during a short period of time after the restart

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Improve the stability and availability of TiFlash when TiFlash restarts, which reduces possible query failures following the restart
```

    - Support pushing down multiple new String and Time functions to the MPP engine

        - String functions: LIKE pattern, FORMAT(), LOWER(), LTRIM(), RTRIM(), SUBSTRING_INDEX(), TRIM(), UCASE(), UPPER()
        - Mathematical functions: ROUND (decimal, int)

>         - Date and time functions: HOUR (), MICROSECOND (), MINUTE (), SECOND (), SYSDATE ()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Date and time functions: HOUR(), MICROSECOND(), MINUTE(), SECOND(), SYSDATE()
```

        - Type conversion function: CAST(time, real)
        - Aggregation functions: GROUP_CONCAT(), SUM(enum)

    - Support 512-bit SIMD

>     - Enhance the cleanup algorithm for outdated data versions to reduce disk usage and improve read file performance

Reviewer 4: 1. outdated data versions 改成 outdated data？原文 "过期的数据版本" 感觉就是指过期的数据。
2. improve read file performance，提高读文件性能，感觉是提高文件访问的性能，read files more efficiently？

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Enhance the cleanup algorithm for outdated data to reduce disk usage and read files more efficiently
```

>     - Fix the issue that users cannot get memory or CPU information when viewing the dashboard on some non-Linux systems

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that dashboard does not display memory or CPU information in some non-Linux systems
```

    - Improve the data validation capability of column-based files (checksums, experimental feature)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Reduce the default value of the Kafka sink configuration item `MaxMessageBytes` from 64 MB to 1 MB to fix the issue that large messages are rejected by the Kafka Broker [#3104](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3104)
        - Reduce memory usage in the relpication pipeline [#2553](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2553)[#3037](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3037) [#2726](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2726)
        - Optimize monitoring items and alert rules to improve observability of synchronous links, memory GC, and stock data scanning processes [#2735](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2735) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1606) [#3000](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3000) [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2985) [#2156](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2156)
        - When the sync task status is normal, no more historical error messages are displayed to avoid misleading users [#2242](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2242)

> ## Bug Fixes

Author: Translated by @qiancai

    - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)
    - Fix a panic issue caused by getting the cgroup information from some platforms [#10980](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10980)

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that PD incorrectly delete the peers with data and in pending status because the number of peers exceeds the number of configured peers [#4045](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4045)
    - Fix the issue that PD does not fix down peers in time [#4077](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4077)
    - Fix the issue that the scatter range scheduler cannot schedule empty regions [#4118](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4118)
    - Fix the issue that the key manager cost too much CPU [#4071](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4071)
    - Fix the data race issue that might occur when setting configurations of hot region scheduler [#4159](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4159)
    - Fix slow leader election caused by stucked region syncer[#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the inaccurate issue of the TiFlash Store Size statistics

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of inaccurate TiFlash Store Size statistics
```

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up on some platforms due to the absence of library `nsl`

>     - Block the infinite wait of `wait index` when writing pressure is heavy (a default timeout of 5 minutes is added), which prevents TiFlash from waiting too long for data synchronization to provide services

Reviewer 4: 这里的 “数据同步” 是否应该是 data replication？

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Block the infinite wait of `wait index` when writing pressure is heavy (a default timeout of 5 minutes is added), which prevents TiFlash from waiting too long for data replication to provide services
```

    - Fix the slow and no result issues of the log search when the log volume is large
    - Fix the issue that only the most recent logs can be searched when searching old historical logs

>     - Fix the wrong result that might occur when a new collation is enabled

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the possible wrong result when a new collation is enabled
```

    - Fix the possible parsing errors when an SQL statement contains extremely long nested expressions

>     - Fix the `Block schema mismatch` error of the Exchange operator
>     - Fix the `Can't compare` error when comparing Decimal types

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the possible `Block schema mismatch` error of the Exchange operator
    - Fix the possible `Can't compare` error when comparing Decimal types
```

---
title: TiDB 5.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.3 Release Notes

Release date: November 23, 2021

TiDB version: 5.3.0

In v5.3, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

+ Introduce temporary tables to simplify your application logic and improve performance
+ Support setting attributes for tables and partitions

> + Support creating users with minimum privilege on TiDB Dashboard to enhance system security

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ Support creating users with the least privileges on TiDB Dashboard to enhance system security
```

> + Optimize the process of handling timestamps in TiDB to improve the overall performance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Optimize the timestamp processing flow of TiDB to improve the overall performance
```

> + Optimize the process of handling timestamps in TiDB to improve the overall performance
> + Enhance the performance of TiDB Data Migration (DM) so that data is migrated from MySQL to TiDB with lower latency
> + Support parallel import in TiDB Lightning to improve the efficiency of full data migration
> + Support saving and restoring the on-site information of a cluster with a single SQL statement, which helps improve the efficiency of troubleshooting execution plan issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ Optimize the timestamp processing flow in TiDB to improve the overall performance
+ Enhance the performance of TiDB Data Migration (DM) so that data is migrated from MySQL to TiDB with lower latency
+ Support parallel import in TiDB Lightning to improve the efficiency of full data migration
+ Support saving and restoring the on-site information of a cluster with a single SQL statement, which helps improve the efficiency of troubleshooting issues about the execution plan
```

+ Support the continuous profiling experimental feature to improve the observability of database performance
+ Continue optimizing the storage and computing engines to improve the system performance and stability

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> When upgrading from an earlier TiDB version to v5.3.0, if you want to know the compatibility change notes of all intermediate versions, you can check the [Release Notes](/releases/release-notes.md) of the corresponding version.

### System variables

|  Variable name    |  Change type    |  Description    |
| :---------- | :----------- | :----------- |

> | [tidb_enable_noop_functions](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_noop_functions-new-in-v40) | Modified |  No longer controls the `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` and `DROP TEMPORARY TABLE` behaviors. |

Reviewer 3: @djshow832 PTAL. Thanks

> | [tidb_enable_noop_functions](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_noop_functions-new-in-v40) | Modified |  No longer controls the `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` and `DROP TEMPORARY TABLE` behaviors. |

Reviewer 5: LGTM

|[`tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v53) | Newly added |  Sets the maximum waiting time for a batch saving operation when TiDB requests TSO from PD. The default value is `0`, which means no additional waiting. |
| [tidb_tmp_table_max_size](/system-variables.md#tidb_tmp_table_max_size-new-in-v53) | Newly added  | Limits the maximum size of a single [temporary table](/temporary-tables.md). If the temporary table exceeds this size, an error will occur. |

### Configuration file parameters

|  Configuration file    |  Configuration item  | Change type |  Description  |
| :---------- | :----------- | :----------- | :----------- |
| TiDB | [`prepared-plan-cache.capacity`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#capacity)  | Modified | Controls the number of cached statements. The default value is changed from `100` to `1000`.|

> | TiKV | [`storage.reserve-space`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#reserve-space) | Modified | Controls space reserved for disk protection when TiKV is started. Starting from v5.3.0, 80% of the reserved space is spared for operations and maintenance when disk space is insufficient, and the remaining 20% space stores temporary disk files. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`storage.reserve-space`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#reserve-space) | Modified | Controls space reserved for disk protection when TiKV is started. Starting from v5.3.0, 80% of the reserved space is used as the extra disk space required for operations and maintenance when the disk space is insufficient, and the other 20% is used to store temporary files. |
```

| TiKV | memory-usage-limit | Modified  | This configuration item is new in TiDB v5.3.0 and its value is calculated based on storage.block-cache.capacity. |

> | PD | [`log.file.max-days`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-days) | Modified | Controls the maximum number of days that logs are retained. The default value is changed from `1` to `0`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| PD | [`log.file.max-days`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-days) | Modified | Controls the maximum number of days that logs are retained for. The default value is changed from `1` to `0`. |
```

> | PD | [`log.file.max-backups`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-backups) | Modified | Controls the maximum number of logs that are retained. The default value is changed from `7` to `0`.  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| PD | [`log.file.max-backups`](/pd-configuration-file.md#max-backups) | Modified | Controls the maximum number of logs that are retained for. The default value is changed from `7` to `0`.  |
```

- Fix the issue that the `SHOW VIEW` permission is not required to execute `SHOW CREATE VIEW`. Now you are expected to have the `SHOW VIEW` permission to execute the `SHOW CREATE VIEW` statement.
- The system variable `sql_auto_is_null` is added to the noop functions. When `tidb_enable_noop_functions = 0/OFF`, modifying this variable value causes an error.
- The `GRANT ALL ON performance_schema.*` syntax is no longer permitted. If you execute this statement in TiDB, an error occurs.
- Fix the issue that auto-analyze is unexpectedly triggered outside the specified time period when new indexes are added before v5.3.0. In v5.3.0, after you set the time period through the `tidb_auto_analyze_start_time` and `tidb_auto_analyze_end_time` variables, auto-analyze is triggered only during this time period.
- The default storage directory for plugins is changed from "" to /data/deploy/plugin.
- The DM code is migrated to [the folder "dm" in TiCDC code repository](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/tree/master/dm). Now DM follows TiDB in version numbers. Next to v2.0.x, the new DM version is v5.3.0, and you can upgrade from v2.0.x to v5.3.0 without any risk.

## New features

### SQL

> - **Use SQL interface to set placement rules for data (experimental)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Use SQL interface to set placement rules for data (experimental feature)**
```

>     Support the `[CREATE | ALTER] PLACEMENT POLICY` syntax that provides a SQL interface to set placement rules for data. Using this feature, you can specify tables and partitions to be scheduled to specific regions, data centers, racks, or hosts. This meets your application demands for lower cost and higher flexibility. The typical user scenarios are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Support the `[CREATE | ALTER] PLACEMENT POLICY` syntax that provides a SQL interface to set placement rules for data. Using this feature, you can specify tables and partitions to be scheduled to specific regions, data centers, racks, hosts, or rules of replica numbers. This meets your application demands for lower cost and higher flexibility. The typical user scenarios are as follows:
```

>     - Merge multiple databases of different applications to reduce the cost on database maintenance

Reviewer 6: This one is true, but we have to be a little bit careful because it only applies in some circumstances. DDL wil be a limitation because it is only performed by the DDL owner, and schema changes are non-concurrent.

Author: This is provided by @ThomasYYYY . What's your suggested way of saying this?  Or can we simply remove this one?

Reviewer 3: @easonn7 Would you please take a look at the above comment from @morgo and suggest the changes? Thanks

Reviewer 7: For an experimental feature, I think there is no problem with the description here. What we should do is to to define these boundary issues clearly in the next formal GA.

> - **Use SQL interface to set placement rules for data (experimental)**
> 
>     Support the `[CREATE | ALTER] PLACEMENT POLICY` syntax that provides a SQL interface to set placement rules for data. Using this feature, you can specify tables and partitions to be scheduled to specific regions, data centers, racks, or hosts. This meets your application demands for lower cost and higher flexibility. The typical user scenarios are as follows:
> 
>     - Merge multiple databases of different applications to reduce the cost on database maintenance
>     - Increase replica count for important data to improve the application availability and data reliability
>     - Store new data into SSDs and store old data into HHDs to lower the cost on data archiving and storage
>     - Schedule the leaders of hotspot data to high-performance TiKV instances
>     - Separate cold data to lower-cost storage mediums to improve cost efficiency

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Use SQL interface to set placement rules for data (experimental feature)**

    Support the `[CREATE | ALTER] PLACEMENT POLICY` syntax that provides a SQL interface to set placement rules for data. Using this feature, you can specify tables and partitions to be scheduled to specific regions, data centers, racks, hosts, or replica count rules. This meets your application demands for lower cost and higher flexibility. The typical user scenarios are as follows:

    - Merge multiple databases of different applications to reduce the cost on database maintenance
    - Increase replica count for important data to improve the application availability and data reliability
    - Store new data into SSDs and store old data into HHDs to lower the cost on data archiving and storage
    - Schedule the leaders of hotspot data to high-performance TiKV instances
    - Separate cold data to lower-cost storage mediums to improve cost efficiency
```

    [User document](/information-schema/information-schema-placement-rules.md), [#18030](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18030)

- **Temporary tables**

>     Support the `CREATE [GLOBAL] TEMPORARY TABLE` syntax to create temporary tables. Using this feature, you can easily manage the temporary data generated in the calculation process of an application. Temporary data is stored in memory and you can use the `tidb_tmp_table_max_size` variable to limit the size of a temporary table. TiDB supports the following types of temporary tables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Support the `CREATE [GLOBAL] TEMPORARY TABLE` statement to create temporary tables. Using this feature, you can easily manage the temporary data generated in the calculation process of an application. Temporary data is stored in memory and you can use the `tidb_tmp_table_max_size` variable to limit the size of a temporary table. TiDB supports the following types of temporary tables:
```

    [User document](/temporary-tables.md), [#24169](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24169)

- **Support the `FOR UPDATE OF TABLES` syntax**

    For a SQL statement that joins multiple tables, TiDB supports acquiring pessimistic locks on the rows correlated to the tables that are included in `OF TABLES`.

    [User document](/sql-statements/sql-statement-select.md), [#28689](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28689)

- **Table attributes**

    Support the `ALTER TABLE [PARTITION] ATTRIBUTES` statement that allows you to set attributes for a table or partition. Currently, TiDB only supports setting the `merge_option` attribute. By adding this attribute, you can explicitly control the Region merge behavior.

    User scenarios: When you perform the `SPLIT TABLE` operation, if no data is inserted after a certain period of time, the empty Regions are automatically merged by default. In this case, you can set the table attribute to `merge_option=deny` to avoid the automatic merging of Regions.

    [User document](/table-attributes.md), [#3839](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3839)

### Security

> - **Support creating a least-privileged user for TiDB Dashboard**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Support creating users with the least privileges on TiDB Dashboard**
```

Reviewer 3: 现在的标题看起来可能以为，支持创建一个最小权限用户。 可以和 Tom 最开头翻译对齐

> The account system of TiDB Dashboard is consistent with that of TiDB SQL. Users accessing TiDB Dashboard are authenticated and authorized based on TiDB SQL user's privileges. Therefore, TiDB Dashboard requires limited privileges, or merely the read-only privilege. You can configure users to access TiDB Dashboard based on the principle of least privilege, thus avoiding access of high-privileged users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The account system of TiDB Dashboard is consistent with that of TiDB SQL. Users accessing TiDB Dashboard are authenticated and authorized based on TiDB SQL users' privileges. Therefore, TiDB Dashboard requires limited privileges, or merely the read-only privilege. You can configure users to access TiDB Dashboard based on the principle of least privilege, thus avoiding access of high-privileged users.
```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > When the number of clients is small and the PD leader CPU is not full, it is NOT recommended to enable PD Follower Proxy.

    - Support using the system variable [`tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v53) to set the maximum waiting time needed for the PD client to batch request TSO. The unit of this time is milliseconds. In case that PD has a high TSO requests load, you can reduce the load and improve the throughput by increasing the waiting time to get a larger batch size.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > When the TSO request load is not high, it is NOT recommended to modify this variable value.

    [User document](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v53), [#3149](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3149)

### Stability

- **Support Online Unsafe Recovery after some stores are permanently damaged (experimental feature)**

>     Support the `unsafe remove-failed-stores` command that allows data unsafe recovery. Suppose that multiple replicas of data encounter problems like permanent damage (such as disk damage), and this issue causes the data in an application to be not readable or writable. In this case, Online Unsafe Recovery using PD can recover the data to be readable or writable again.

Reviewer 8: Might be good to list the full command here. Is this `pd-ctl unsafe remove-failed-stores`? How does this related to `tikv-ctl 
unsafe-recover remove-fail-stores`?

As I understand this this improves this by:

- being online
- uses PD to send commands to the stores as opposed to have to run the commands on the stores themselves

So there already was `Unsafe Recovery`, but now we have `Online Unsafe Recovery`. This wasn't clear for the release notes.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, Daniël! @Connor1996 could you please help check how should we update the command?

Reviewer 9: Support the `pd-ctl unsafe remove-failed-stores` command that allows data unsafe recovery online which is a replacement of `tikv-ctl unsafe-recover remove-fail-stores`.

> > **Warning:**
> >
> > - This feature is a lossy recovery, so TiKV cannot guarantee data integrity and data indexes integrity after using the feature.
> > - Online unsafe recovery is an experimental feature, and it is **not** recommended to use it in the production environment. The interface, strategy, and internal implementation of the feature might be changed when it is finally released. Also, although the feature is tested in some scenarios, it is not thoroughly validated, so the feature might cause system unavailability.
> > - It is recommended to perform the feature-related operations with the support of the TiDB team. If some incorrect operations are performed, it might be hard to recover the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to perform the feature-related operations with the support of the TiDB team.
```

### TiDB data share subscription

- **TiCDC Eventually Consistent Replication**

    TiCDC provides the eventually consistent replication capability in disaster scenarios. When a disaster occurs in the primary TiDB cluster and the service cannot be resumed in a short period of time, TiCDC needs to provide the ability to ensure the consistency of data in the secondary cluster. Meanwhile, TiCDC needs to allow the business to quickly switch the traffic to the secondary cluster to avoid the database being unavailable for a long time and affecting the business.

    This feature supports TiCDC to replicate incremental data from a TiDB cluster to the secondary relational database TiDB/Aurora/MySQL/MariaDB. In case the primary cluster crashes, TiCDC can recover the secondary cluster to a certain snapshot in the primary cluster within 30 minutes, given the condition that before disaster the replication status of TiCDC is normal and replication lag is small. It allows data loss of less than 5 minutes, that is, RPO <= 30min, and RTO <= 5min.

    [User Document](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md)

### Deployment and O&M

- **Continuous Profiling (experimental feature)**

>     Introduced in TiDB Dashboard, Continuous Profiling allows storing instance performance analysis results automatically in real time without interrupting TiDB clusters. The performance analysis result is displayed using a flame graph, which is observable and shortens troubleshooting time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    TiDB Dashboard supports the Continuous Profiling feature, which stores instance performance analysis results automatically in real time when TiDB clusters are running. You can check the performance analysis result in a flame graph, which is more observable and shortens troubleshooting time.
```

        - String functions: LIKE pattern, FORMAT(), LOWER(), LTRIM(), RTRIM(), SUBSTRING_INDEX(), TRIM(), UCASE(), UPPER()
        - Mathematical functions: ROUND (decimal, int)
        - Date and time functions: HOUR(), MICROSECOND(), MINUTE(), SECOND(), SYSDATE()
        - Type conversion function: CAST(time, real)
        - Aggregation functions: GROUP_CONCAT(), SUM(enum)

    - Support 512-bit SIMD
    - Enhance the cleanup algorithm for outdated data to reduce disk usage and read files more efficiently
    - Fix the issue that dashboard does not display memory or CPU information in some non-Linux systems
    - Unify the naming style of TiFlash log files (keep the naming style consistent with that of TiKV) and support dynamic modification of logger.count and logger.size
    - Improve the data validation capability of column-based files (checksums, experimental feature)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Reduce the default value of the Kafka sink configuration item `MaxMessageBytes` from 64 MB to 1 MB to fix the issue that large messages are rejected by the Kafka Broker [#3104](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3104)

>         - Reduce memory usage in the relpication pipeline [#2553](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2553)[#3037](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3037) [#2726](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2726)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Reduce memory usage in the replication pipeline [#2553](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2553)[#3037](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3037) [#2726](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2726)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.3 Release Notes

> Release date: November 30, 2021

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: November 26, 2021
```

TiDB version: 5.3.0

In v5.3, the key new features or improvements are as follows:

+ Introduce temporary tables to simplify your application logic and improve performance
+ Support setting attributes for tables and partitions
+ Support creating users with the least privileges on TiDB Dashboard to enhance system security
+ Optimize the timestamp processing flow in TiDB to improve the overall performance
+ Enhance the performance of TiDB Data Migration (DM) so that data is migrated from MySQL to TiDB with lower latency

> + Support parallel import in TiDB Lightning to improve the efficiency of full data migration

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
+ Support parallel import using multiple TiDB Lightning instances to improve the efficiency of full data migration
```

| [tidb_tmp_table_max_size](/system-variables.md#tidb_tmp_table_max_size-new-in-v53) | Newly added  | Limits the maximum size of a single [temporary table](/temporary-tables.md). If the temporary table exceeds this size, an error will occur. |

### Configuration file parameters

|  Configuration file    |  Configuration item  | Change type |  Description  |
| :---------- | :----------- | :----------- | :----------- |
| TiDB | [`prepared-plan-cache.capacity`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#capacity)  | Modified | Controls the number of cached statements. The default value is changed from `100` to `1000`.|
| TiKV | [`storage.reserve-space`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#reserve-space) | Modified | Controls space reserved for disk protection when TiKV is started. Starting from v5.3.0, 80% of the reserved space is used as the extra disk space required for operations and maintenance when the disk space is insufficient, and the other 20% is used to store temporary files. |
| TiKV | memory-usage-limit | Modified  | This configuration item is new in TiDB v5.3.0 and its value is calculated based on storage.block-cache.capacity. |

> | TiKV | `raftstore.raft-reject-transfer-leader-duration`  | Deleted | Determines the smallest duration that a Leader is transferred to a newly added node. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  TiKV | `raftstore.store-pool-size` | Newly added | The allowable number of threads in the pool that handles Raft. |
|  TiKV | `raftstore.raft-write-size-limit` | Newly added | The threshold value that triggers Raft to write data. If the data size is larger than the value of this configuration item, the data is written to the disk. When the value of `raftstore.store-io-pool-size` is `0`, this configuration item does not take effect.|
|  TiKV | `raftstore.raft-msg-flush-interval` | Newly added | The interval between sending Raft messages in batch. The batch Raft messages are sent every interval specified by this configuration item. When the value of `raftstore.store-io-pool-size` is `0`, this configuration item does not take effect. |
| TiKV | `raftstore.raft-reject-transfer-leader-duration`  | Deleted | Determines the smallest duration that a Leader is transferred to a newly added node. |
```

Reviewer 2: @TomShawn @gengliqi These are the newly added Raft Async I/O related configuration items, PTAL, thanks!

Author: raftstore.raft-msg-flush-interval: Determines the interval at which Raft messages are sent in batches. The Raft messages in batches are sent every interval specified by this configuration item.

Author: raftstore.raft-write-size-limit: Determines the threshold at which Raft data is written into the disk.

    - Since v5.3.0, TiCDC and BR support [global temporary tables](/temporary-tables.md#global-temporary-tables). If you use TiCDC and BR of a version earlier than v5.3.0 to replicate global temporary tables to the downstream, a table definition error occurs.
    - The following clusters are expected to be v5.3.0 or later; otherwise, data error is reported when you create a global temporary table: 
    
        - the cluster to be imported using TiDB ecosystem tools
        - the cluster restored using TiDB ecosystem tools
        - the downstream cluster in a replication task using TiDB ecosystem tools
    - For the compatibility information of temporary tables, refer to [Compatibility with MySQL temporary tables](/temporary-tables.md#compatibility-with-mysql-temporary-tables) and [Compatibility restrictions with other TiDB features](/temporary-tables.md#compatibility-restrictions-with-other-tidb-features).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

For releases earlier than v5.3.0, TiDB reports an error when the system variable is set to an illegal value. For v5.3.0 and later releases, TiDB returns success with a warning such as "|Warning | 1292 | Truncated incorrect xxx: 'xx'" when the system variable is set to an illegal value.
```

It is recommended that you create a least-privileged SQL user to access and sign in with TiDB Dashboard. This avoids access of high-privileged users and improves security.

[User document](/dashboard/dashboard-user.md)

### Performance

- **Optimize the timestamp processing flow of PD**

    TiDB optimizes its timestamp processing flow and reduces the timestamp processing load of PD by enabling PD Follower Proxy and modifying the batch waiting time required when the PD client requests TSO in batches. This helps improve the overall scalability of the system.

    - Support enabling or disabling PD Follower Proxy through the system variable [`tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy-new-in-v53). Suppose that the TSO requests load of PD is too high. In this case, enabling PD follower proxy can batch forward the TSO requests collected during the request cycle on followers to the leader nodes. This solution can effectively reduce the number of direct interactions between clients and leaders, reduce the pressure of the load on leaders, and improve the overall performance of TiDB. 

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > When the number of clients is small and the PD leader CPU is not full, it is NOT recommended to enable PD Follower Proxy.

Author: ```suggestion
    > When the number of clients is small and the PD leader CPU load is not full, it is NOT recommended to enable PD Follower Proxy.
```

    It is recommended to perform the feature-related operations with the support of the TiDB team.

[User document](/online-unsafe-recovery.md), [#10483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10483)

### Data migration

- **DM replication performance enhanced**

    Supports the following features to ensure lower-latency data replication from MySQL to TiDB:

    - Compact multiple updates on a single row into one statement
    - Merge batch updates of multiple rows into one statement

- **Add DM OpenAPI to better maintain DM clusters (experimental feature)**

    DM provides the OpenAPI feature for querying and operating the DM cluster. It is similar to the feature of [dmctl tools](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/dmctl-introduction).

    Currently, DM OpenAPI is an experimental feature and disabled by default. It is not recommended to use it in a production environment.

    [User Document](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/open-api)

- **TiDB Lightning Parallel Import**

>     TiDB Lightning provides parallel import capability to extend the original feature. It allows you to deploy multiple Lightning instances at the same time, and import single tables or multiple tables to downstream TiDB in parallel. Without changing the way customers use it, it greatly improves the data migration ability, allowing you to obtain data in a more real-time way to further process, integrate and analyze them. It improves the efficiency of enterprise data management.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    TiDB Lightning provides parallel import capability to extend the original feature. It allows you to deploy multiple Lightning instances at the same time to import single tables or multiple tables to downstream TiDB in parallel. Without changing the way customers use it, it greatly improves the data migration ability, allowing you to migrate data in a more real-time way to further process, integrate and analyze them. It improves the efficiency of enterprise data management.
```

>     In our test, using 10 TiDB Lightning instances, a total of 20 TiB MySQL data can be imported to TiDB within 8 hours. The performance of multiple table import is also improved. A single TiDB Lightning instance can support importing at 250 GB/s,  8 times the original performance.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    In our test, using 10 TiDB Lightning instances, a total of 20 TiB MySQL data can be imported to TiDB within 8 hours. The performance of multiple table import is also improved. A single TiDB Lightning instance can support importing at 250 GB/s, and overall migration speed up 8 times the original performance.
```

    [User document](/sql-plan-replayer.md), [#26325](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26325)

### TiDB data share subscription

- **TiCDC Eventually Consistent Replication**

    TiCDC provides the eventually consistent replication capability in disaster scenarios. When a disaster occurs in the primary TiDB cluster and the service cannot be resumed in a short period of time, TiCDC needs to provide the ability to ensure the consistency of data in the secondary cluster. Meanwhile, TiCDC needs to allow the business to quickly switch the traffic to the secondary cluster to avoid the database being unavailable for a long time and affecting the business.

    This feature supports TiCDC to replicate incremental data from a TiDB cluster to the secondary relational database TiDB/Aurora/MySQL/MariaDB. In case the primary cluster crashes, TiCDC can recover the secondary cluster to a certain snapshot in the primary cluster within 30 minutes, given the condition that before disaster the replication status of TiCDC is normal and replication lag is small. It allows data loss of less than 5 minutes, that is, RPO <= 30min, and RTO <= 5min.

    [User Document](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md)

> 

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion

- **TiCDC supports the HTTP protocol OpenAPI for managing TiCDC tasks**
    Since TiDB v5.3.0, OpenAPI provided by TiCDC becomes an official feature. You can query and operate TiCDC clusters using OpenAPI.
    
```

    - Remove useless gRPC logs [#24190](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24190)
    - Limit the valid decimal length to fix precision-related issues [#3091](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3091)
    - Fix the issue of a wrong way to check for overflow in `plus` expression [#26977](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26977)
    - Fix the issue of `data too long` error when dumping statistics from the table with `new collation` data [#27024](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27024)
    - Fix the issue that the retried transactions' statements are not included in `TIDB_TRX` [#28670](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28670)
    - Fix the wrong default value of the `plugin_dir` configuration [28084](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28084)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue of unavailable TiKV caused by Raftstore deadlock when migrating Regions. The workaround is to disable the scheduling and restart the unavailable TiKV. [#10909](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10909)
    - Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)

>     - Fix the issue that the raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the Raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)
```

    - Fix the issue that batch messages are too large in Raft client implementation [#9714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9714)
    - Fix the issue that some coroutines leak in `resolved_ts` [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs to the coprocessor when the size of response exceeds 4 GiB [#9012](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9012)
    - Fix the issue that snapshot Garbage Collection (GC) misses GC snapshot files when snapshot files cannot be garbage collected [#10813](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10813)
    - Fix a panic issue caused by timeout when processing Coprocessor requests [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)
    - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)

>     - Fix a panic issue caused by getting the cgroup information from some platforms [#10980](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10980)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix a panic issue caused by getting the cgroup information from some platforms [#10980](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10980)
    - Fix the issue of poor scan performance because MVCC Deletion versions are not dropped by compaction filter GC [#11248](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11248)
```

Reviewer 2: @Connor1996 how about “Fix the issue that the scan performance decreases because Compaction Filter GC cannot drop MVCC Deletion versions [#11248](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11248)”？

Reviewer 9: @en-jin19 LGTM

|[`tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tso_follower_proxy-new-in-v53) | Newly added  | Determines whether to enable or disable the TSO Follower Proxy feature. The default value is `OFF`, which means the TSO Follower Proxy feature is disabled. At this time, TiDB only gets TSO from PD leader. When this feature is enabled, TiDB evenly sends the requests to all PD nodes when acquiring TSO. The PD follower then forwards the TSO requests to reduce the CPU pressure of PD leader. |
|[`tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v53) | Newly added |  Sets the maximum waiting time for a batch saving operation when TiDB requests TSO from PD. The default value is `0`, which means no additional waiting. |

> | [`tidb_tmp_table_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tmp_table_max_size-new-in-v53) | Newly added  | Limits the maximum size of a single [temporary table](/temporary-tables.md). If the temporary table exceeds this size, an error will occur. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_tmp_table_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tmp_table_max_size-new-in-v530) | Newly added  | Limits the maximum size of a single [temporary table](/temporary-tables.md). If the temporary table exceeds this size, an error will occur. |
```

Starting from TiCDC v5.3.0, the cyclic replication feature between TiDB clusters (an experimental feature in v5.0.0) has been removed. If you have already used this feature to replicate data before upgrading TiCDC, the related data is not affected after the upgrade.

### Telemetry

> TiDB adds the information about whether the TEMPORARY TABLE is enabled in telemetry.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
TiDB adds the information to the telemetry report about whether or not the TEMPORARY TABLE feature is used. This does not include table names or table data.
```

Reviewer 3: @lilyjazz PTAL. Thanks

Reviewer 12: LGTM
